SPDX Metadata is licensed under the CC0 1.0 Universal public domain
dedication with the following preamble. A link to the license is
included below.

**Preamble**

The SPDX specification requires populating the SPDX fields with certain
data related to such fields. In addition, the SPDX specification also
contains numerous fields where an SPDX author may provide relevant
explanatory text. These data and explanatory information are the
“SPDX-Metadata”. Without opining on the lawfulness of "database
rights" (in jurisdictions where applicable), such explanatory text is
copyrightable subject matter in most Berne Convention countries.

By using the SPDX specification, or any portion hereof, you hereby agree
that any copyrightable work (as determined by your jurisdiction) in any
SPDX-Metadata, including without limitation explanatory text, shall be
subject to the terms of the Creative Commons CC0 1.0 Universal license
(reproduced in its entirety below).

Further, for SPDX-Metadata not containing any copyrightable work, you
hereby agree and acknowledge that the SPDX-Metadata is provided to you
"as-is" and without any representations or warranties of any kind
concerning the SPDX-Metadata, express, implied, statutory or otherwise,
including without limitation warranties of title, merchantability,
fitness for a particular purpose, non-infringement, or the absence of
latent or other defects, accuracy, or the present or absence of errors,
whether or not discoverable, all to the greatest extent permissible
under applicable law.

<http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/legalcode>

[Category:Legal](Category:Legal "wikilink")
