Past year Project Ideas for GSoC projects

# 2021

## SPDX Workgroup Tooling Projects

These projects are aimed at contributing to the SPDX tools to help
reduce the effort to create SPDX documents and increase the accuracy of
them.

### Migrate SPDX Online Tools to DJango3

Migrate the SPDX online tools to later versions of Django and upgrade
dependencies (such as Django Social Auth) to later version to support
better / more secure authentication to Github. In addition to migrating
to DJango 3, additional issues can be taken on to create a full GSoC
project (see the list below).

#### Skills Needed

  - Experience with Python3 programming
  - Familiar with Django framework

#### Background Information

The SPDX Online Tools are currently being migrated to Python3. Several
libraries can now be upgraded to more supportable versions including
DJango. There are some known issues with the current version of Django
Social Auth which would be resolved by upgrading the versions. There may
be additional libraries which can be upgraded. There is also an
opportunity to improve the structure and unit tests for the online tools
if time allows. See the [Python3
Branch](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/tree/rtgdk_python3) of
the SPDX online tools for the current state of the Python3 migration.

Additional tasks and issues can can be included in a project (in
priority order):

  - Migrate project to python3 and Django3
    [issue 50](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/58) and
    [issue 24](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/24)
  - [Merge app and api
    code](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/287)
  - Fix and improve test
    [issue 201](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/201)
    [issue 282](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/282),
    [issue 202](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/202) +
    others
  - [Add a submit via mail functionality to license
    submittal](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/299)
  - [Store license diff screenshot in database instead of uploading to
    github](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/218)
  - [Improve error message when error received from the Java
    code](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/157)
  - [Add a License Diff section to the SPDX Online
    Tool](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/186)
  - [API documentation
    tool](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/91)
  - API for license namespace
  - [Move to Github Apps and improvement for
    production](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-online-tools/issues/204)

#### Available Mentors

[Rohit Lodha](mailto:rohit.lodhartg@gmail.com) [Anshul Dutt
Sharma](mailto:anshuldutt21@gmail.com) [Gary
O'Neall](mailto:gary@sourceauditor.com)

### Migrate Python Tools to Python 3

Migrate the [SPDX Python Tools](https://github.com/spdx/tools-python) to
Python 3 including all unit testing. In addition, additional known
issues raised on GitHub may be tackled.

#### Skills Needed

  - Experience with Python3 programming
  - Knowledge of parsing algorithms

#### Background Information

The Python tools are command-line tools and a library that implement
reading and writing of SPDX files in different formats, as well as
converting and validating SPDX files. The current implementation uses
Python 2, which is no longer supported. In addition to migration, some
additional tasks may be taken on to improve the supportability of the
library. In particular, restructuring the code to separate out the
different serialization formats (see
[issue 147](https://github.com/spdx/tools-python/issues/147)).

#### Available Mentors

[Santiago Torres Arias](mailto:santiago@nyu.edu) [Alexios
Zavras](mailto:alexios.zavras@intel.com) [Anshul Dutt
Sharma](mailto:anshuldutt21@gmail.com)

### RDF Writer for Golang

Gordf supports writing rdf triples to rdf file. Create an interface that
would take in a SPDX document and generate RDF triples out of it. Which
will then be consumed by the gordf to generate a RDF/xml file.

#### Skills Needed

  - Knowledge of RDF
  - Skills in XML parsing
  - Knowledge and experience in Golang

#### Background Information

RDF/XML is one of the supported formats for SPDX documents. Creating an
RDFWriter would create a generally useful facility for Golang and
provide a more modular structure for the SPDX Golang tools.

See the [SPDX Golang tools repo](https://github.com/spdx/tools-golang)
and the [gordf library](https://github.com/spdx/gordf) for more details
on the current implementations.

#### Available Mentors

[Rishabh Bhatnagar](mailto:bhatnagarrishabh4@gmail.com)

### YAML Support for Golang libraries

YAML is one of the supported formats for SPDX. This project is to add
support for reading and writing YAML to the Golang libraries.

#### Skills Needed

  - Knowledge of YAML
  - Skills in YAML parsing
  - Knowledge and experience in Golang

#### Background Information

See the [SPDX Golang tools repo](https://github.com/spdx/tools-golang)
and the [gordf library](https://github.com/spdx/gordf) for more details
on the current implementations.

#### Available Mentors

[Rishabh Bhatnagar](mailto:bhatnagarrishabh4@gmail.com) [Steve
Winslow](mailto:swinslow@linuxfoundation.org)

### JSON Support for Golang libraries

JSON is one of the supported formats for SPDX. This project is to add
support for reading and writing JSON to the Golang libraries.

#### Skills Needed

  - Knowledge of JSON
  - Skills in JSON parsing
  - Knowledge and experience in Golang

#### Background Information

See the [SPDX Golang tools repo](https://github.com/spdx/tools-golang)
and the [gordf library](https://github.com/spdx/gordf) for more details
on the current implementations.

#### Available Mentors

[Rishabh Bhatnagar](mailto:bhatnagarrishabh4@gmail.com) [Steve
Winslow](mailto:swinslow@linuxfoundation.org)

## SPDX Specification Projects

The following projects contribute directly to the creation or validation
of the SPDX specification.

### Generate a JSON Representation of the Specification from Structured Markdown

Convert a consistently structured Markdown file into a JSON structure
following a well defined schema. Changes to an existing Markdown file
should update the JSON files. The Markdown will have a well defined
structure to allow for translation of the text in Markdown to the
properties of the JSON file. The conversion will also validate that the
Markdown follows the required specification. The conversion would be run
as part of a Github action for the SPDX specification.

#### Skills Needed

  - Skills in writing parsing algorithms (e.g. working with [Abstract
    Syntax Tree](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Abstract_syntax_tree))
  - Knowledge and experience in the programming language chosen for the
    project (e.g. Java, JavaScript, Python)
  - Knowledge of Markdown and JSON syntax

#### Background Information

The SPDX tech team works very collaboratively on the specification
updates using markdown pages in GitHub as the primary documentation for
the specification. RDF/OWL is used as the primary technical
specification for the object model including relationships, cardinality,
class structure, and other restrictions. There is a lot of overlap
between the information in the Markdown and the information in the OWL
document. To improve the quality and productivity of the specification
work, the SPDX technical team has decided to add tooling for
verification of the Markdown and conversion of any common information to
the OWL document. The conversion will be in 2 stages:

  - Convert from Markdown to an intermediate JSON format
  - Convert from the JSON format to RDF/OWL

The specific schema for the JSON format is under development and planned
to be available before the start of GSoC.

Below are some additional resources for this project:

  - [GitHub flavored Markdown](https://github.github.com/gfm/)
  - [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/) information site and its
    [current
    draft](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-bhutton-json-schema-00)
  - [Results of process
    discussion](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13PojpaFPdoKZ9Gyh_DEY-Rp7lldyMbSiGE3vCRQhR9M/edit#)
  - [Analysis of RDF/OWL fields relative to
    Markdown](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EGoAmKxPfmmlF3XV6fXwNmsCiFKLH83Bhh8_xrmGhko)
    (work in progress)
  - [Template for Spec
    Markdown](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LN5CepVVOu38w4pXeLpw_3BDNn2CKAWUyTVdlh8C2WM/edit?usp=sharing)
    (work in progress)
  - [Example spec JSON
    file](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1J6P3q6wcP0c1xquTIfMfIBJCa8S1xtkhDs6dD1hSf4Y/edit?usp=sharing)
    (work in progress)
  - [Draft JSON
    schema](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OF_EqfU4tLPF-oGheEZ1aCzsnGIJHyRptzQ_U7AA-wY/edit?usp=sharing)
    (work in progress)

#### Available Mentors

[Gary O'Neall](mailto:gary@sourceauditor.com) [Alexios
Zavras](mailto:alexios.zavras@intel.com)

### Generate RDF/OWL from from JSON specification format

Convert a set of JSON files into a Web Ontology Language XML document.
The JSON file will map to the elements and attributes of the RDF/OWL XML
file. The JSON schema will be defined prior to the project start and
will be consistent with the "Generate a JSON Representation of the
Specification from Structured Markdown" project described above.

#### Skills Needed

  - Knowledge and experience in the programming language chosen for the
    project (e.g. Java, JavaScript, Python)
  - Knowledge of RDF/OWL/XML formats
  - Knowledge of JSON parsers

#### Background Information

The SPDX tech team works very collaboratively on the specification
updates using markdown pages in GitHub as the primary documentation for
the specification. RDF/OWL is used as the primary technical
specification for the object model including relationships, cardinality,
class structure, and other restrictions. There is a lot of overlap
between the information in the Markdown and the information in the OWL
document. To improve the quality and productivity of the specification
work, the SPDX technical team has decided to add tooling for
verification of the Markdown and conversion of any common information to
the OWL document. The conversion will be in 2 stages:

  - Convert from Markdown to an intermediate JSON format
  - Convert from the JSON format to RDF/OWL

The specific schema for the JSON format is under development and planned
to be available before the start of GSoC.

Below are some additional resources for this project:

  - [RDF OWL parsing notes from the
    W3C](https://www.w3.org/TR/2004/NOTE-owl-parsing-20040121/)
  - [JSON Schema](https://json-schema.org/) information site and its
    [current
    draft](https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-bhutton-json-schema-00)
  - [Results of process
    discussion](https://docs.google.com/document/d/13PojpaFPdoKZ9Gyh_DEY-Rp7lldyMbSiGE3vCRQhR9M/edit#)
  - [Analysis of RDF/OWL fields relative to
    Markdown](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1EGoAmKxPfmmlF3XV6fXwNmsCiFKLH83Bhh8_xrmGhko)
    (work in progress)
  - [Current RDF/OWL document for SPDX
    spec](https://github.com/spdx/spdx-spec/blob/development/v2.2.1/ontology/spdx-ontology.owl.xml)
  - [Template for Spec
    Markdown](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LN5CepVVOu38w4pXeLpw_3BDNn2CKAWUyTVdlh8C2WM/edit?usp=sharing)
    (work in progress)
  - [Example spec JSON
    file](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1J6P3q6wcP0c1xquTIfMfIBJCa8S1xtkhDs6dD1hSf4Y/edit?usp=sharing)
    (work in progress)
  - [Draft JSON
    schema](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1OF_EqfU4tLPF-oGheEZ1aCzsnGIJHyRptzQ_U7AA-wY/edit?usp=sharing)
    (work in progress)

#### Available Mentors

[Gary O'Neall](mailto:gary@sourceauditor.com) [Alexios
Zavras](mailto:alexios.zavras@intel.com)

### SPDX Specification Views for legal counsels and developers

The proposal is to see if it possible to deduct large SPDX documents
into a small subset SPDX document providing a specific reduced "views"
on larger data.

#### Skills Needed

  - Understanding of compliance needs of legal counsels and developers
    so we can remove friction to adopt SPDX

#### Background Information

SPDX documents commonly contain 100s, if not 1000s of entries making it
hard for a human to make manual corrections or draw conclusions. No
scanner can provide 100% complete data human corrections are usual
needed. The aim from this proposal is twofold: 1. Enable developers with
a "code view" of tool-generated SPDX document close to the code they
work on to enable them to make corrections to the SPDX data. For
instance amend SPDX package tag values or model package dependencies not
detected by used scanner. 2. Provide legal counsels with a "package and
limited file view" to enable legal conclusions

#### Available Mentors

[Steve Winslow](mailto:swinslow@linuxfoundation.org) [Thomas
Steenbergen](mailto:thomas.steenbergen@here.com)

### ClearlyDefined exporting and importing SPDX documents

The goal of this GSoC project would be to add support in the
[ClearlyDefined project](https://https://github.com/clearlydefined) to
export curated data into SPDX 2.2 documents. Once that is accomplished,
being able to import SPDX documents into the curated database would be
the next step.

#### Skills Needed

  - Experience with JSON and YAML (XML a plus)
  - Ability to interpret and implement the SPDX specification and
    related ClearlyDefined community documentation
  - Ability to work with the community in integrating results with other
    projects
  - Willingness to learn about open source licensing and related
    technical matters

#### Background Information

Export a ClearlyDefined workspace as a SPDX document:

  - user to navigate to <https://clearlydefined.io/workspace>
  - Add one or more components to the workspace through any of the
    existing means,
  - then click Share, and then slick SPDX (choice of 2.2 supported
    output formats).

which would result in an SPDX document is exported containing all of the
components that were in the workspace. Note: If there is mandatory
information required by SPDX that ClearlyDefined does not have we will
need to determine how to accommodate that.

To populate a workspace from a SPDX document:

  - user to navigate to <https://clearlydefined.io/workspace>
  - drag a SPDX document into the workspace and then all of the
    components in the SPDX document are added to the workspace.

There are some discrepancies between the content in ClearlyDefined and
that SPDX documents, so work would be needed with both communities to
figure out: what to do if license information in the SPDX disagrees with
what ClearlyDefined has and how to handle pending curations?

#### Available Mentors

[Kate Stewart](mailto:kstewart@linuxfoundation.org) [William
Bartholomew](mailto:IAMWILLBAR@github.com)

# 2019

The projects from 2019 can be found on the [2019 Google Summer of Code
projects page for
SPDX](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/organizations/4532099550281728/#5727887162867712).
