## Background

In SPDX 2.0, a richer format for describing the relationship between
SPDX elements will need to be created. The current tag/value syntax will
not be sufficient. For example, an SPDX document may contain a nesting
of several packages and each package (or file within the package) may
make a reference(s) to other packages and files both inside and outside
the SPDX document.

One alternative is to devise a language with nesting and external
references and standardize that within the SPDX working group.

This proposal is to leverage the existing RDF Turtle language which is
standardized by W3C and is designed for readability. From the W3C Turtle
abstract: "This document defines a textual syntax for RDF called Turtle
that allows RDF graphs to be completely written in a compact and natural
text form...". See the [Turtle
Submission](http://www.w3.org/TeamSubmission/turtle/) for more
information. A draft tutorial for Turtle can be found here:
<http://www.w3.org/2007/02/turtle/primer/>.

## Proposal

Utilize the Turtle output for a standard RDF graph of the SPDX document
with minimal post processing to improve the readability. Certain
conventions should be followed to improve the readability. The SPDX
tools would be updated to follow the conventions and provide the
appropriate pre/post processing.

### Post Processing Proposals

1.  Remove the namespace definitions
2.  Replace full URL references to SPDX standard licenses with just the
    SPDX license ID.

### Conventions for RDF Turtle

1.  Use namespace names "spdx", "rdf", "doap", and "rdfs"
2.  Use base and explicit node names so that license ID's can be used
    for the node references (exact mechanics of this TBD)
3.  Use the explicit "rdf:typeof" rather than the shortand "a"

### Open Issues

1.  Use of standard license ID's rather than the full URL - there does
    not seem to be a way to resolve this with the namespaces. This would
    eliminate the post-processing of standard license ID's

### Example

`     rdf:typeof spdx:Package ;`  
`     spdx:checksum`  
`             [ rdf:typeof spdx:Checksum ;`  
`               spdx:algorithm spdx:checksumAlgorithm_sha1 ;`  
`               spdx:checksumValue "2fd4e1c67a2d28fced849ee1bb76e7391b93eb12"`  
`             ] ;`  
`     spdx:copyrightText "Copyright 2010, 2011 Source Auditor Inc." ;`  
`     spdx:description "This utility translates and SPDX RDF XML document to a spreadsheet, translates a spreadsheet to an SPDX RDF XML document and translates an SPDX RDFa document to an SPDX RDF XML document." ;`  
`     spdx:downloadLocation`  
`             "`<http://git.spdx.org/?p=spdx-tools.git;a=summary>`" ;`  
`     spdx:hasFile _:b1 , _:b2 , _:b3 ;`  
`     spdx:licenseComments`  
`             "The declared license information can be found in the NOTICE file at the root of the archive file" ;`  
`     spdx:licenseConcluded`  
`             [ rdf:typeof spdx:ConjunctiveLicenseSet ;`  
`               spdx:member :LicenseRef-1 , :LicenseRef-4 , :LicenseRef-2 , Apache-1.0 , :LicenseRef-3 , MPL-1.1 , Apache-2.0`  
`             ] ;`  
`     spdx:licenseDeclared`  
`             [ rdf:typeof spdx:ConjunctiveLicenseSet ;`  
`               spdx:member :LicenseRef-1 , :LicenseRef-4 , :LicenseRef-2 , :LicenseRef-3 , MPL-1.1 , Apache-2.0`  
`             ] ;`
