**SPDX Workgroup Releases Software Package Data Exchange Standard to
Widespread Industry Support**

By Linux\_Foundation - August 16, 2011 - 10:07pm

Standard format for communicating open source license and copyright
information throughout supply chain ensures better, easier compliance

LINUXCON, Vancouver, B.C., August 17, 2011 – The SPDX workgroup, hosted
by The Linux Foundation, today announced the release of version 1.0 of
its Software Package Data Exchange (SPDX™) standard.

The SPDX standard helps facilitate compliance with free and open source
software licenses by standardizing the way license information is shared
across the software supply chain. SPDX reduces redundant work by
providing a common format for companies and communities to share
important data about software licenses and copyrights, thereby
streamlining and improving compliance.

SPDX was developed with participation by a wide range of industry and
open source community heavyweights, including: Alcatel-Lucent, Antelink,
Black Duck Software, Canonical, HP, Micro Focus, Motorola Mobility, nexB
Inc, OpenLogic, Palamida, Protecode, Source Auditor, Texas Instruments
and Wind River. Participants in the SPDX beta program included Antelink,
HP, Motorola Mobility, Texas Instruments and Wind River.

Click here to see [comments in support of the SDPX 1.0
release](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/news-media/announcements/2011/08/widespread-industry-support-spdx-10).

“The SPDX 1.0 standard is an example of how open compliance and
collaboration can enable the advancement of Linux and open source
software,” said Jim Zemlin, executive director of The Linux Foundation.
“We applaud the SPDX workgroup for its important work on providing a
consistent way to report and view license information for software
technology components, making it even easier for companies to maximize
their investments in free and open source software.”

Most technology products today are assembled from multiple components
that contain free and open source software, as well as commercial
software; these components are created, delivered, and received by
companies throughout the supply chain. Because of the distributed nature
and complexity of the global software supply chain, it has become
cumbersome and time consuming for each organization to prepare the
license information for these components in the multiple distinct
formats prescribed by others in their supply chain.

By enabling communities and companies to provide license information in
a common format that can be easily analyzed and shared, the SPDX
standard helps to accelerate the adoption of Linux and other free and
open source software across industries, including the consumer
electronics marketplace, by easing the burden of compliance through
transparent sharing of license information.

“Today we’re seeing collaboration among industry experts come to
fruition in SPDX 1.0,” said Esteban Rockett, co-founder of SPDX and lead
software counsel at Motorola Mobility (an SPDX beta participant).
“Representatives from the community, vendors and companies that use
open source have come together to deliver a standard, accompanied with
tools, that will make it easier to determine and comply with license
obligations in a software bill of materials. This reduces compliance
anxiety and costs, and further accelerates the adoption of Linux and
other free and open source software.”

“The announcement of the initial release of the SPDX standard is a
welcome event, because SPDX is a crucial building block in an
industry-wide system of automated license compliance administration,”
said Eben Moglen, executive director of the Software Freedom Law Center.
“The efforts of the SPDX workgroup will ultimately help to realize large
cost savings for all parties making commercial use of embedded FOSS, as
well as substantially increased assurance of license compliance for FOSS
licensors.”

The SPDX standard defines a standard file format that lists detailed
license and copyright information for a software package and each file
it comprises. The SPDX community has also provided open source tools to
convert SPDX files to and from spreadsheet formats.

Visit the SPDX website for more details on what is in the SPDX standard
or to participate in the SPDX community:
[www.spdx.org](http://www.spdx.org).

A video overview of SPDX is available at
<http://www.linuxfoundation.org/programs/legal/compliance/webinars/introduction-to-spdx>.

About SPDX

The Software Package Data Exchange® (SPDX™) specification is a standard
format for communicating the components, licenses and copyrights
associated with a software package. This SPDX Community is a workgroup
sponsored by The Linux Foundation and associated with FOSSBazaar. The
specification has been adopted as one of the key elements of the Linux
Foundation’s Open Compliance Program. Further, the SPDX naming
conventions are now in use at the industry’s repository of record for
open source licenses, maintained by the Open Source Initiative at
<http://opensource.org/licenses>. The SPDX specification itself is under
the Creative Commons Attribution License 3.0. For more information about
SPDX, please visit: <http://spdx.org/about/spdx>.

About The Linux Foundation

[The Linux Foundation](http://www.linuxfoundation.org)is a nonprofit
consortium dedicated to fostering the growth of Linux. Founded in 2000,
the organization sponsors the work of Linux creator Linus Torvalds and
promotes, protects and advances the Linux operating system by marshaling
the resources of its members and the open source development community.
The Linux Foundation provides a neutral forum for collaboration and
education by hosting [Linux
conferences](http://events.linuxfoundation.org), including
[LinuxCon](http://events.linuxfoundation.org/events/linuxcon), and
generating original [Linux
research](http://www.linuxfoundation.org/publications) and content that
advances the understanding of the Linux platform. Its web properties,
including [Linux.com](http://www.linux.com), reach approximately two
million people per month. The organization also provides extensive
[Linux training](http://training.linuxfoundation.org) opportunities that
feature the Linux kernel community’s leading experts as instructors.
[Follow The Linux Foundation on
Twitter](http://www.twitter.com/linuxfoundation).

\#\#\#

Trademarks: The Linux Foundation and SPDX are trademarks of The Linux
Foundation. Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds.

[Category:Business](Category:Business "wikilink")
[Category:Archived](Category:Archived "wikilink")
