The website refresh team has put together a proposed information map for
the SPDX web site refresh initiative.

We've decided to capture this using FreeMind, a free tool for creating
mind maps. You can find information about Free Mind here:
<http://freemind.sourceforge.net/wiki/index.php/Main_Page>

Below, you'll find two PDF versions of the mind map we've created.

Version 1 shows the SPDX Home Page with 9 proposed child pages that
would be available from the Home page. Many of those child pages have
additional children. Open it up, and take a look\!

Version 2 shows the same mind map, but with one more level displayed.
This final level, in small, black, italic text, is used to indicate
child nodes that, on the actual web site, would be links to another
node. The text tells you which node the link points to.

Note: The mind map does not show page layout or graphics placeholders,
but is simply intended to show the flow of information and likely links.

Feedback on this proposed map is most welcome.

If you'd like to provide your feedback in FreeMind, send me an email
(knewcomer@blackducksoftware.com) and I'll send the .mm version of the
mind map, since I can't post it here.

## Next steps

  - Collect Feedback
  - Implement in sandbox

**First feedback session** is being hosted by the Business team on
Thursday, July 7th. We'll be happy to host additional sessions upon
request.

'''Volunteers Needed\! '''Once we have something close-to-consensus,
we'll proceed to implement in the SPDX web site sandbox that Martin
Michlmayr was kind enough to create. We're looking for volunteers who
might know Drupal or are willing to learn to help with the
implementation. We're also looking for volunteers to create content that
might not already be present on ths site. If you're interested in
helping, please send email to knewcomer@blackducksoftware.com.

[Category:Website](Category:Website "wikilink")
[Category:Archived](Category:Archived "wikilink")
