This page outlines participation by universities and students around
SPDX. Support for these projects has been provided by the National
Science Foundation, the University of Nebraska at Omaha, The Linux
Foundation, Texas Instruments, Hewlett Packard, Google, and the entire
SPDX community.

## Google Summer of Code

### GSOC 2014

For the first time, the Linux Foundation’s SPDX Workgroup participated
in the 2014 Google Summer of Code internship program. The goal was to
engage students in open source projects, learn a bit about open source
compliance, and meet open source community members. We had excellent
engagement in our first year, with a total of four projects accepted
from three different universities. These projects helped advance SPDX by
connecting the specification with open source programming languages and
open source license scanners. They helped move SPDX into communities
that can aid and benefit from the distribution of open compliance
practices. Specific projects, and the students who worked on them
include:

**Python SPDX Parser Library** *- Ahmed Hisham Ismail at the German
University in Cairo*

**GO SPDX Parser Library** *- Vlad Velici at the University of
Southampton*

**SPDX Merge Tool** *- Alex Ling at the University of Nebraska Omaha*

**FOSSology+SPDX Tooling** *- Zachary McFarland at the University of
Nebraska Omaha.*

We would like to thank the Linux Foundation, specifically Till
Kamppeter, for their support in the SPDX Google Summer of Code projects.
We would also like to thank Google for providing the opportunity for
university students to engage in these amazing projects.

## Conference Participation

### LinuxCon, Linux Collaboration Summit, and the Linux Open Compliance Summit

Since 2012, students have been active participants at LinuxCon, the
Linux Foundation’s Collaboration Summit, and the Linux Foundation’s Open
Compliance Summit. Their participation has included the introduction of
students to open source communities, the presentation of university open
compliance tooling projects, and the advancement of the SPDX standard
with fellow community members.
