# Google Summer of Code

This wiki page is for tracking Google Summer of Code submissions
mentor'd by SPDX.

## GSOC 2014

For the first time, the Linux Foundation’s SPDX Workgroup participated
in the 2014 Google Summer of Code internship program. The goal was to
engage students in open source projects, learn a bit about open source
compliance, and meet open source community members. We had excellent
engagement in our first year, with a total of four projects accepted
from three different universities. These projects helped advance SPDX by
connecting the specification with open source programming languages and
open source license scanners. They helped move SPDX into communities
that can aid and benefit from the distribution of open compliance
practices. Specific projects, and the students who worked on them
include:

**Python SPDX Parser Library** *- Ahmed Hisham Ismail at the German
University in Cairo*

**GO SPDX Parser Library** *- Vlad Velici at the University of
Southampton*

**SPDX Merge Tool** *- Alex Ling at the University of Nebraska Omaha*

**FOSSology+SPDX Tooling** *- Zachary McFarland at the University of
Nebraska Omaha.*

## GSOC 2015

There were no submissions for 2015.

## GSOC 2016

See this page <http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Ideas_List> for
a list of project ideas.

## GSOC 2017

# GSoC Application

This is cut and paste data saved from the GSoC Application sso we can
reuse.

Your details

-----

Why does your org want to participate in Google Summer of Code?

SPDX is an all volunteer community committed to improving the awareness,
standards and tools for open source compliance. By engaging students, we
will increase the awareness of open source compliance for future
software professionals. We would also like to engage students in a
collaborative open source project and potentially keep them engaged
after the project completes. It would be valuable to extend the
compliance tools available for the open source community and for
commercial software companies. 508/1000 How many potential mentors have
agreed to mentor this year? 1-5 How will you keep mentors engaged with
their students?

Three of our mentors have had experience with GSoC and have been very
engaged in the past projects. We plan on having regular communications
with the mentors in our mailing lists as well as in our weekly calls.
Each of our mentors will have a back-up mentor to help support the
mentoring activities and provide continuing engagement if the mentor is
unavailable for any reason. 379/1000 How will you help your students
stay on schedule to complete their projects?

The mentors will be primarily responsible for the student progress, with
the back-up mentor providing support. We will be tracking progress in
our weekly tech calls and discuss any issues when needed. 201/1000 How
will you get your students involved in your community during GSoC?

We will involve the students in our standard communications (email
distribution lists and weekly calls), provide a forum for them to
communicate their project and results. Once significant milestones have
been achieved, we will feature their results on the spdx.org website.
275/1000 How will you keep students involved with your community after
GSoC?

We will encourage them to continue to contribute and maintain ongoing
dialog through 1:1 emails from the mentors, inclusion in the SPDX
mailing lists, and encouraging them to participate in the tech subgroup
calls. 214/1000 Has your org been accepted as a mentoring org in Google
Summer of Code before? Yes No Which years did your org participate in
GSoC? 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 What is
your success/fail rate per year?

I believe that all students were successful. Please note: our
participation in 2014 was as part of the Linux Foundation. We are
applying this year as an independent collaborative open source
organzation. 205/500 If your org has applied for GSoC before but not
been accepted, select the years: 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008
2007 2006 2005 If you are a new organization to GSoC, is there a Google
employee or previously participating organization who will vouch for
you? If so, please enter their name, contact email, and relationship to
your organization. (optional)

Three of our mentors have participated in the 2014 GSoC and one of our
mentors has participated in more than 1 previous GSoC. 125/500 Are you
part of a foundation/umbrella organization? Yes No Which one?

Linux Foundation 16/200 What year was your project started?

2010 Anything else we should know (optional)?

-----

Public Profile

-----

Website URL

<http://spdx.org> <http://www.yourproject.org/> Tagline

Promoting open source compliance through standard communication of SW
licenses. 79/80 A very short description of your organization.

`UPLOAD LOGO`

Your organization logo. Must be a 24-bit PNG, minimum height 256 pixels.
Primary Open Source License Apache License 2.0 (Apache-2.0) The open
source license that your organization uses. Organization Category
Programming Languages and Development Tools Select which category fits
your organization best. Some organizations may fit into multiple
categories, you must choose one. Used to help students filter the
organization list. Technology Tags rdfRemove Press delete to remove this
chip. node.jsRemove Press delete to remove this chip. javascriptRemove
Press delete to remove this chip. javaRemove Press delete to remove this
chip. pythonRemove Press delete to remove this chip.

Enter a technology tag Enter keywords for the primary specific
technologies your organization uses. Examples: Python, Javascript,
MySQL, Hadoop, OpenGL, Arduino Topic Tags complianceRemove Press delete
to remove this chip. opensourceRemove Press delete to remove this chip.
spdxRemove Press delete to remove this chip. licenseRemove Press delete
to remove this chip. source code analysisRemove Press delete to remove
this chip.

Enter a topic tag Enter keywords for general topics that describe your
organization. Examples: Vision, Robotics, Cloud, Graphics, Web, Real
time Ideas List

<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Ideas_List> Enter the URL of
your Ideas List page. This will be linked from your organization page.
Descriptions

These descriptions will be displayed on the organization list page
(Short Description) and on your organization's page (Long Description).
More details.

The Long Description may include limited Markdown.

Short Description

The Software Package Data ExchangeR (SPDXR) specification is a standard
format for communicating the components, licenses and copyrights
associated with a software package. 172/180 Long Description

Our Mission

Develop and promote adoption of a specification to enable any party in a
software supply chain, from the original author to the final end user,
to accurately communicate the licensing information for any piece of
copyrightable material that such party may create, alter, combine, pass
on, or receive, and to make such information available in a consistent,
understandable, and re-usable fashion, with the aim of facilitating
license and other policy compliance.

Our Vision

The vision of SPDX is achieve license compliance with minimal cost
across the supply chain. Ideally, upstream component developers begin
the process by supplying SPDX flies as part of their downloads. Users of
those components therefore have a starting point for the SPDX files they
create for their "customers," and so on. If everything is working
properly, the provenance of each piece of code is researched and
documented only once during its journey through a supply chain, and that
information is passed on in parallel with the code in the SPDX format.

Execution

Development of SPDX is run somewhat like an open source project: Those
that participate influence. Decisions tend to be made by consensus. The
spec itself is writen by a technical team with input and support from
business and legal teams. Although much of the the initial focus was on
Linux and the project is under the auspices of the Linux Foundation, the
strategy from the outset has been much broader to be applicable to
anything open source. To accommodate a range of needs, SPDX can be
implemented in XML or tag-value formats.

The SPDX "IP" is all housed on this site. Most of that is embodied in
the spec itself, but we have developed a number of separate assets that
complement the specification, including a standard license list,
implementation guidelines and the SPDX compatible tools.
1849/2000open\_in\_new Proposals

Guidance for students on how to apply to your organization. Should
include any prerequisites or requirements. You may wish to include a
template or tips for their proposals. May include limited Markdown.

Enter tags that students can select (one) from and apply to their own
proposals to help organize them. Examples: New Feature, Optimization.
You can also use these to designate "sub-organizations" if you are an
umbrella organization.

Application Instructions

Please review the requirements described in the project ideas page at
<http://wiki.spdx.org/view/Technical_Team/Ideas_List>. Submit your
proposals using the GSoC website to the mentor from the ideas page.
203/1500open\_in\_new Proposal Tags workgroup toolsRemove Press delete
to remove this chip. online validation toolsRemove Press delete to
remove this chip. university of nebraska at omaha projectsRemove Press
delete to remove this chip. specification projectsRemove Press delete to
remove this chip. Contact Methods

You must complete at least one of the following three contact options.

IRC Channel

Link to a web page that describes how to get on your IRC channel or
other realtime communication system. Mailing List

<https://lists.spdx.org/mailman/listinfo/spdx-tech> Link to a page
describing how to join your organization's mailing list. General Email

spdx-tech@lists.spdx.org A general purpose contact email for your
organization. Links

Google+ URL (optional)

Twitter URL (optional)

Blog URL (optional)
